Add README for the search service (#784)
NuGet/NuGet.Services.Metadata: docs/Search-auxiliary-files.md

# Search auxiliary files

**Subsystem: Search 🔎**

Aside from metadata stored in the [Azure Search indexes](Azure-Search-indexes.md), there is data stored in Azure Blob
Storage for bookkeeping and performance reasons. These data files are called **auxiliary files**. The data files

> mentioned here are those are explicitly managed by the search subsystem. Other data files exist (manually created,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mentioned here are those explicitly managed by the search subsystem. Other data files exist (manually created,
```

Reviewer 2: Alternatively,

```suggestion
mentioned here are those that are explicitly managed by the search subsystem. Other data files exist (manually created,
```

is deployed. For nuget.org, we run search in four regions, so there are four copies of each of these files.

The search auxiliary files are:

  - [`downloads/downloads.v2.json`](#download-count-data) - total download count for every package version
  - [`owners/owners.v2.json` and change history](#package-ownership-data) - owners for every package ID
  - [`verified-packages/verified-packages.v1.json`](#verified-packages-data) - package IDs that are verified
  - [`popularity-transfers/popularity-transfers.v1.json`](#popularity-transfer-data) - popularity transfers between package IDs

## Download count data

The `downloads/downloads.v2.json` file has the total download count for all package versions. The total download count
for a package ID as a whole can be calculated simply by adding all version download counts.

The downloads data file looks like this:

```json
{
  "Newtonsoft.Json": {
    "8.0.3": 10508321,
    "9.0.1": 55801938
  },
  "NuGet.Versioning": {
    "5.6.0-preview.3.6558": 988,
    "5.6.0": 10224
  }
}
```

The package ID and version keys are not guaranteed to have the original (author-intended) casing and should be treated

> in a case insensitive manner. The version keys will always be normalized via standard `NuGetVersion` normalization rules

Reviewer: Would a link to `NuGetVersion` normalization rules be justified here?
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/concepts/package-versioning#normalized-version-numbers

Author: Done

(e.g. no build metadata will appear, not leading zeroes, etc.).

If a package ID or version does not exist in the data file, this only indicates that there is no download count data and
does not imply that the package ID or version does not exist on the package source. It is possible for package IDs or
versions that do not exist (perhaps due to deletion) to exist in the data file. 

The order of the IDs and versions in the file is undefined.

This file has a "v2" in the file name because it is the second version of this data. The "v1" format is still produced
by the statistics subsystem and has a less friendly data format.

The class for reading and writing this file to Blob Storage is [`DownloadDataClient`](../src/NuGet.Services.AzureSearch/AuxiliaryFiles/DownloadDataClient.cs).

## Package ownership data

> The `owners/owners.v2.json` file contains the owner information about all package IDs. While this file is being updated
> periodically, the set of package IDs that changed since the last iteration is written to a file with a path pattern like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `owners/owners.v2.json` file contains the owner information about all package IDs. While this file is updated
periodically, the set of package IDs that changed since the last iteration is written to a file with a path pattern like
```

The second sentence was a little confusing for me at first. What do you think of something like this?

```suggestion
The `owners/owners.v2.json` file contains the owner information about all package IDs. Each time this file is updated,
the set of package IDs that changed is written to a "change history" file with a path pattern like
```

`owners/changes/TIMESTAMP.json`.

The class for reading and writing these files to Blob Storage is [`OwnerDataClient`](../src/NuGet.Services.AzureSearch/AuxiliaryFiles/OwnerDataClient.cs).

### `owners/owners.v2.json`

The owners data file looks like this:

```json
{
  "Newtonsoft.Json": [
    "dotnetfoundation",
    "jamesnk",
    "newtonsoft"
  ],
  "NuGet.Versioning": [
    "Microsoft",
    "nuget"
  ]
}
```

The package ID key is not guaranteed to have the original (author-intended) casing and should be treated
in a case insensitive manner. The owner values will have the same casing that is shown on NuGetGallery but should be
treated in a case insensitive manner.

If a package ID does not exist in the data file, this indicates that the package ID has no owners (a possible but

> relatively rare scenario for NuGetGallery). It possible for a package ID with no versions to appear in this file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
relatively rare scenario for NuGetGallery). It is possible for a package ID with no versions to appear in this file.
```

### Change history

The change history files do not contain owner usernames for GDPR reasons but mention all of the package IDs that had
ownership changes since the last time that the `owners.v2.json` file was generated. If a package ID is not mentioned in
a file, that means that there were no ownership changes in the time window. An ownership change is defined as one or
more owners being added or removed from the set of owners for that package ID.

Each change history data file has a file name with timestamp format `yyyy-MM-dd-HH-mm-ss-FFFFFFF` (UTC) and a file
extension of `.json`.

The files look like this:

```json
[
  "Newtonsoft.Json",
  "NuGet.Versioning"
]
```

By processing the files in order of their timestamp file name, a rough log of ownership changes can be produced. These
files are currently not read by any job and are produced for future investigative purposes.

The package ID key is not guaranteed to have the original (author-intended) casing and should be treated
in a case insensitive manner.

The order of the package IDs in the file is undefined.

## Verified packages data

> The `verified-packages/verified-packages.v1.json` data file contains all package IDs that are considered verified. 
> A verified package ID is one that is utilizing the [prefix reservation feature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/nuget-org/id-prefix-reservation). This essentially defines the verified checkmark icon in the search UIs.

Reviewer 2: Maybe consider something like:

```suggestion
The `verified-packages/verified-packages.v1.json` data file contains all package IDs that are considered verified by the [prefix reservation feature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/nuget-org/id-prefix-reservation). This essentially defines the verified checkmark icon in the search UIs.
```
